README.md, before:

# PreMailer.Net [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/30dh8owf89pxg9bt)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/milkshakesoftware/premailer-net)

C# Library for moving CSS to inline style attributes, to gain maximum E-mail client compatibility.

## Usage

### Static method on `PreMailer` class
```csharp
string htmlSource = File.ReadAllText(@"C:\Workspace\testmail.html");

var result = PreMailer.MoveCssInline(htmlSource);

result.Html 		// Resultant HTML, with CSS in-lined.
result.Warnings 	// string[] of any warnings that occurred during processing.
```

### Set up `PreMailer` instance
```csharp
string htmlSource = File.ReadAllText(@"C:\Workspace\testmail.html");

var pm = new PreMailer(htmlSource);
pm.AddAnalyticsTags(source, medium, campaign, content, domain = null); // Optional to add analytics tags

var result = pm.MoveCssInline(...);

result.Html 		// Resultant HTML, with CSS in-lined.
result.Warnings 	// string[] of any warnings that occurred during processing.
```

### Options
The following options can be passed to the `PreMailer.MoveCssInline` method to configure it's behaviour:

- `removeStyleElements(bool = false)` - Removes elements that were used to source CSS (currently, only `style` is supported).
- `ignoreElements(string = null)` - CSS selector of element(s) _not_ to inline. Useful for mobile styles (see below).
- `css(string = null)` - A string containing a style-sheet for inlining.
- `stripIdAndClassAttributes(bool = false)` - True to strip ID and class attributes.
- `removeComments(bool = false)` - True to remove comments, false to leave them intact.

### Media queries
If you want to [apply mobile styles to your e-mail](http://help.campaignmonitor.com/topic.aspx?t=164), you should put your
mobile specific styles in its own `style` block that targets the appropriate devices using media queries.

But since you cannot know by the time of sending an e-mail wether or not it will be viewed on a mobile device, the `style` 
block that targets mobile devices should not be inlined!

To ignore a `style` block, you need to specify an ignore selector when calling the `MoveCssInline` method, like this:

```csharp
var result = PreMailer.MoveCssInline(input, false, ignoreElements: "#ignore");
```
    
And your mobile specific `style` block should have an ID of `ignore`:
    
```html
<style type="text/css" id="ignore">.target { width: 1337px; }</style>
```

### Premailer specific CSS becomes HTML attributes
Premailer looks for the use of CSS attributes prefixed with `-premailer` and will proxy the value through to the DOM element as an attribute.

For example

```css
table {
    -premailer-cellspacing: 5; 
    -premailer-width: 500;
}
```

will make a `table` element render as

```html
<table cellspacing="5" width="500">
```

### Notes

- Pseudo classes/elements are not supported by [CsQuery](https://github.com/jamietre/CsQuery) (which PreMailer.Net uses internally).  Any that are encountered in your HTML will be ignored and logged to the `InlineResult.Warnings` collection.

## Installation
**NuGet**: [PreMailer.Net](http://nuget.org/List/Packages/PreMailer.Net)

## Contributors

* [martinnormark](https://github.com/martinnormark)
* [robcthegeek](https://github.com/robcthegeek)

[Among others](https://github.com/milkshakesoftware/PreMailer.Net/graphs/contributors)

## License

PreMailer.Net is available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/milkshakesoftware/PreMailer.Net/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more info.

Commit message:

Document use of external stylesheets

README.md, after:

# PreMailer.Net [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/30dh8owf89pxg9bt)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/milkshakesoftware/premailer-net)

C# Library for moving CSS to inline style attributes, to gain maximum E-mail client compatibility.

## Usage

### Static method on `PreMailer` class
```csharp
string htmlSource = File.ReadAllText(@"C:\Workspace\testmail.html");

var result = PreMailer.MoveCssInline(htmlSource);

result.Html 		// Resultant HTML, with CSS in-lined.
result.Warnings 	// string[] of any warnings that occurred during processing.
```

### Set up `PreMailer` instance
```csharp
string htmlSource = File.ReadAllText(@"C:\Workspace\testmail.html");

var pm = new PreMailer(htmlSource);
pm.AddAnalyticsTags(source, medium, campaign, content, domain = null); // Optional to add analytics tags

var result = pm.MoveCssInline(...);

result.Html 		// Resultant HTML, with CSS in-lined.
result.Warnings 	// string[] of any warnings that occurred during processing.
```

### Options
The following options can be passed to the `PreMailer.MoveCssInline` method to configure it's behaviour:

- `baseUri(Uri = null)` - Base URL to apply to `link` elements with `href` values ending with `.css`.
- `removeStyleElements(bool = false)` - Removes elements that were used to source CSS (currently, only `style` is supported).
- `ignoreElements(string = null)` - CSS selector of element(s) _not_ to inline. Useful for mobile styles (see below).
- `css(string = null)` - A string containing a style-sheet for inlining.
- `stripIdAndClassAttributes(bool = false)` - True to strip ID and class attributes.
- `removeComments(bool = false)` - True to remove comments, false to leave them intact.

### External style sheets
Sometimes it's handy to reference external style sheets with a `<link href="..." />` element. PreMailer will download and use external style sheets as long as the value of `href` ends with `.css`.

Both absolute and relative URLs are suppored. If the URL is relative, you must specify the `baseUri` parameter in either the constructor, or when calling the static `MoveCssInline` method.

`<link />` elements that match the `ignoreElements` selector won't be downloaded.

### Media queries
If you want to [apply mobile styles to your e-mail](http://help.campaignmonitor.com/topic.aspx?t=164), you should put your
mobile specific styles in its own `style` block that targets the appropriate devices using media queries.

But since you cannot know by the time of sending an e-mail wether or not it will be viewed on a mobile device, the `style` 
block that targets mobile devices should not be inlined!

To ignore a `style` block, you need to specify an ignore selector when calling the `MoveCssInline` method, like this:

```csharp
var result = PreMailer.MoveCssInline(input, false, ignoreElements: "#ignore");
```
    
And your mobile specific `style` block should have an ID of `ignore`:
    
```html
<style type="text/css" id="ignore">.target { width: 1337px; }</style>
```

### Premailer specific CSS becomes HTML attributes
Premailer looks for the use of CSS attributes prefixed with `-premailer` and will proxy the value through to the DOM element as an attribute.

For example

```css
table {
    -premailer-cellspacing: 5; 
    -premailer-width: 500;
}
```

will make a `table` element render as

```html
<table cellspacing="5" width="500">
```

### Notes

- Pseudo classes/elements are not supported by [CsQuery](https://github.com/jamietre/CsQuery) (which PreMailer.Net uses internally).  Any that are encountered in your HTML will be ignored and logged to the `InlineResult.Warnings` collection.

## Installation
**NuGet**: [PreMailer.Net](http://nuget.org/List/Packages/PreMailer.Net)

## Contributors

* [martinnormark](https://github.com/martinnormark)
* [robcthegeek](https://github.com/robcthegeek)

[Among others](https://github.com/milkshakesoftware/PreMailer.Net/graphs/contributors)

## License

PreMailer.Net is available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/milkshakesoftware/PreMailer.Net/blob/master/LICENSE) file for more info.
